# Influencer Capsule Series

This workspace contains ready-to-record influencer capsules that show the value
of the DC43 project from multiple angles—architecture, governance, adoption,
and industry storytelling. Every capsule is intentionally self-contained so new
viewers can jump in at any point and still feel compelled to watch the rest of
the series.

Each capsule folder includes:

- `script.md` – a full speech script with second-by-second narration and stage
directions that can be fed directly into a video generation workflow such as
Sora 2. Action cues are written in curly braces so they can be parsed and
automated.
- `setup.md` – environment preparation notes for rebuilding the exact demo or
visuals shown in the video, including local prerequisites, dataset seeds, and
recording gear.
- `slides.md` – ready-to-import Reveal.js slide decks featuring section
backgrounds, icon suggestions, animated fragments, and prominent calls to
action.
- `delivery.md` – pacing, performance, and CTA coaching to keep recordings
energetic and on brand for social platforms.
- Optional extras (e.g., `resources.md`, `demo_flow.md`, `runbook.md`,
`checklist.md`) tailored to the topic so the influencer can answer follow-up
questions or run live demos.

All capsule scripts assume the latest open-source state of DC43. When a feature
is on the roadmap—such as a future Snowflake connector—we explicitly call it
out as “coming soon” and provide mock or storyboard visuals rather than implying
that production code already exists.

Capsules can be recorded independently or scheduled as a weekly drip campaign.
Feel free to adjust runtime, camera energy, and localization to match your
community while keeping the substance intact.
